# Economic-Growth-Determinants
Fixed effects multiple linear regression analysis to quantify the relative importance of economic growth factors as countries develop.

This paper assesses the associated impact on per capita output from increases in the following economic growth factors as countries develop: physical capital per capita, human capital per capita, physical productivity and social productivity. To do so fixed effects multiple linear regression analysis is used. This paper supports some pre-existing ideas in the economic growth literature like the complementary nature of economic growth factors, the positive but diminishing marginal product of capital as countries develop and countries exhibiting conditional convergence. Although, new ideas are also proposed especially with regards to the role of total factor productivity (TFP). We break TFP into two components: physical and social productivity and find that physical productivity (over the short run) exhibits positive but diminishing marginal products as countries develop instead of being an exogenous constant which it is commonly regarded as in neoclassical growth models. However, our findings should not be interpreted causally, instead they serve to re-confirm existing theories, propose new ideas for future research and advise policy makers on which economic growth determinants countries should focus on given their level of economic development.

This GitHub repository is complimentary to the academic paper and simply serves as a means for others to access the code and methodology used in generating the results of this paper. It also conatains evidence which was too lengthy to be incorporated into the academic paper, like the proof of regression assumptions being satisified and the degree of overestimation between the proxy and theoretically implied TFP values. Both the Rmd and HTML files are provided in this repo but due to file size constraints they cannot seem to be viewed in GitHub. Thus, to view this project follow the website link in this repo or click on the HTML file and copy and paste the URL link into your browser. The data used in this project is available on request.
